# Single-Code-Bundle-Payment

This project aims to find a pricing strategy for bundled payment in heathcare billing industry. Bundled payment, also known as value-based reimbursement contract, is defined as the reimbursement of health care providers (such as hospitals and physicians) on the basis of expected costs for clinically-defined episodes of care. Bundled payments have been proposed in the health care reform debate as a strategy for reducing health care costs of United States. Commercial payers benefit from bundled payments in terms of reducing payout costs. Service providers benefit in the respect of improving the coordination between physicians and facility and reducing unnecessary overuse of resources to reduce costs. Patients benefit in the sense of receiving the episode of service in a stremlined fashion and reducing payment burden as well.

Instead of submitting a claim to the payor for every single procedure, the bundled payment scheme proposes a single bundled fixed fee schedule. In healthcare billing system, each procedure corresponds to one CPT code. CPT code stands for Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) and describes medical, surgical, and diagnostic services which is designed to communicate uniform information about medical services and procedures among physicians, coders, patients, accreditation organizations, and payers for administrative, financial, and analytical purposes. By using the single code bundled payment system, the billing submission process become much more simplified and it could reduce the delay in claims processing and improve the efficiency of the whole healthcare system. The question then becomes how to select the primary CPT code to represent the bundle of a series of CPT codes.

For surgical center facility where the procedures often fall into similar categories such as hip or lim surgery, it is intuitive to select the most expensive CPT code as the metric to represent the whole episode of visit. The most expensive CPT code is highly likely to be the most important procedure for the patient. The next step is to apply this metric to all the patient cases in the facility and sum up the total price for each episode. In the situation where there are multiple cases with the same primary CPT code but different total prices, which is common for a surgical center with thousands of patient visits, we take the average of the different prices of all the cases with the same primary CPT code and assign the average price as the single code fee for that primary CPT code. This is the proposed Single Code Fee Schedule model.

The data incudes 6000 cases in one surgical center that's prorietary information and is not disclosed due to NDA. 
